Minutes core dev meeting: 2024/10/01 (#43)
nilearn/admin: meeting_notes/2024/2024_10_01.md

# Agenda

## Reminder: Hackathon on Friday

Goal: 'dressed rehearsal' of the Surface API to see if it's ready from prime time.

Rémi: I will be "on" for most of the day, so that people can drop by at any time and I will try to prepare 'tracks' for 'things to do/review if I have 30 minutes / 1 hour / 3 hours'.

- Advertise hackathon: twitter and others...

## News:

### hacktober fest

Rémi: we could try to add Nilearn to the pool of repos that participate to the next hacktoberfest. From our side it requires adding a tag to the repo and some extra labels to the issues / PR that are involved in the hacktoberfest. I have a few issues in mind whose wording I could improve to make them more explicit on what is required.

More info here: https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#maintainers

**ACTION**: let's try it and see if we are flooded with SPAM

### 2 nilearn google calendar to track public and private events

> Rémi: You should have received emails to give you "write" access to both. Let me know if you did not receive anything or if I should add another email address for you. @Elizabeth I also added the nilearn.events@gmail.com as one of the admin (I think you are in control of it, right?).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rémi: You should have received emails to give you "write" access to both. Let me know if you did not receive anything or if I should add another email address for you.
```

 
  - public: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=87f409f6c8543a93a45d4c136e011abe6bcf78adfc1bbf665fc3bd2f8bb0f5ba%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FParis

  - private: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=945ae93030a36f912a00a67b1d752141a3dc50cc05b6de46bc2af3ab66a081d5%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FParis

### Youtube channel

Rémi: I am not sure but this looks like the "official" channel, no?

https://www.youtube.com/@nilearnevents5116/videos

> Is this linked to the nilearn.events@gmail.com address ? @Elisabeth do you know?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Is this linked to the nilearn.events@gmail.com address ? @Elizabeth do you know?
```

Reviewer: Maybe we should update the minutes with what was discussed ? Or did you want these as just the agendas ?

> Rémi: I am not sure but this looks like the "official" channel, no?
> 
> https://www.youtube.com/@nilearnevents5116/videos
> 
> Is this linked to the nilearn.events@gmail.com address ? @Elizabeth do you know?
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rémi: Nilearn has a youtube channel linked to the nilearn.events gmail account : https://www.youtube.com/@nilearnevents5116/videos

Elizabeth added core team members with appropriate access to the account.

```

> Would probably be good to reactivate it and at least create a playlist that centralizes all the talks, demo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACTION: create a playlist that centralizes all the talks, demo
```

### New issue label

Rémi: I have been trying to do a bit of issue triaging. I added a a new "help wanted" label to denote issues where we explicitly ask for help from the community but that may not be for "first timers": not 100% sure if this is very useful but decided to add and see if it at least helps us.

https://github.com/nilearn/nilearn/labels/Help%20wanted

**ACTIONS**:
- remove label - not clear enough

> - make a help "wanted column" in the nilearn generic project
> - make projects public

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- make a help "wanted column" in the nilearn generic project board
- make project boards public
```

### codetriage

> Rémi: talking about triaging. Has anyone used code-triage? https://www.codetriage.com/what Came across it on the pytest repo. It seems to be a way to engage people who would like to contribute to a project but not necessarily with code. If you subscribe to a repo you get emails with issues from that to help "triage", confirm if it is a bug report, validate... Seems like a less intimidating way for people to start jumping into the whole github thing. Should we add it on the Nilearn README?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rémi: talking about triaging. Has anyone used code-triage? https://www.codetriage.com/what Came across it on the pytest repo. It seems to be a way to engage people who would like to contribute to a project but not necessarily with code. If you subscribe to a repo you get emails with issues from that to help "triage", confirm if it is a bug report, validate... Seems like a less intimidating way for people to start jumping into the whole github thing. Should we add it on the Nilearn README?

ACTION: Not pursuing right now.
```

## PRs

- Several PRs need at least one or 2 reviews: [List of PR needing review](https://github.com/nilearn/nilearn/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Review+required%22)
  - We probably need to get more maintainers. Possible suggestions: Mohammad Torabi, Michelle Wang, PL Barbarant
- python 3.13
  -  python can now be free-threaded with no global interpreter lock (GIL)
  -  Should we run tests for this as well?
  -  https://github.com/nilearn/nilearn/pull/4513
  -  is it enough to have our dependencies do it:
    - sklearn: 
      - https://dev.azure.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/_build/results?buildId=70481&view=logs&j=8bc43b48-889f-54b9-cd8b-781ee8447bf2  
      - https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+3.13
  - **ACTION**: check joblib as well 

## Set time next meeting
 
November Tuesdays: 5th 4PM UTC 
 
## Grant

> 
> - CZI
> - connect to giga connectome

Reviewer: ```suggestion

ACTION: Monitor for re-opening of CZI EOSS calls
  - if modifying previous submission, connect to giga connectome
```
